No-LLM Public License (NoLLM)

Version 2, May 2025

Preamble

The NoLLM Public License (NOLLM) is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works. The purpose of this license is to grant freedom to use,
modify, and distribute the licensed work while explicitly prohibiting its use
in large language models (LLMs) or any similar machine learning models.

Terms and Conditions

0. Definitions

    "Work" refers to the copyrighted material licensed under this license.

    "You" or "Your" refers to an individual or legal entity exercising
    permissions granted by this license.

    "LLM" refers to Large Language Models or any machine learning models that
    are used for generating, understanding, or processing natural language.

1. Basic Permissions

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, you are hereby granted the
following rights:

    Use: You may use the Work for any purpose.
    Modify: You may modify the Work, and create derivative works based upon the Work.
    Distribute: You may distribute copies of the original Work and any derivative works.

2. Conditions for Redistribution and Modification

    Source Code: You must make available the source code of the Work or any
    derivative works when you distribute them, under the same terms as this
    license.
    License Notices: You must retain, in the source code of the Work, all
    copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices that are present in
    the source code of the Work. You must also include a copy of this License.
    Copyleft: Any derivative work you distribute must also be licensed under
    this License.

3. Prohibition on LLM Training

    No Training of LLMs: You are expressly prohibited from using the Work, in
    whole or in part, as data or input for training large language models or
    any other machine learning models that process natural language. This
    includes, but is not limited to, using the Work in a training dataset,
    fine-tuning an existing model with the Work, or using the Work to improve
    model accuracy, performance, or capabilities.

    No Integration in LLM-Powered Services: You may not integrate the Work or
    any derivative works into services or applications that are powered by or
    make use of LLMs or other AI models. This includes using the Work as a
    component in applications that generate, summarize, translate, or otherwise
    process natural language using AI.

    No Dataset Creation for LLMs: You may not compile or contribute the Work,
    in whole or in part, to any dataset intended for use in training or
    evaluating LLMs or other AI models. This prohibition applies regardless of
    whether the dataset is publicly available or privately maintained.

    No Indirect Use for LLM Training: You are prohibited from indirectly using
    the Work for LLM training by transforming, modifying, or otherwise altering
    it for the purpose of evading the terms of this License. This includes any
    method that disguises the origin or nature of the Work to circumvent these
    prohibitions.

    No Processing within LLM: You are prohibited from processing or evaluating
    this work via an LLM or otherwise incorporate into an LLM backed process.

4. Acceptance

In order to receive the rights granted by this license, you must agree to its
terms. If you do not agree to these terms, you may not use, modify, or
distribute the Work.

5. Termination

Your rights under this License will terminate automatically if you fail to
comply with any of its terms. Upon termination, you must cease all use,
modification, and distribution of the Work.

6. Disclaimer of Warranty

The Work is provided "as-is", without warranty of any kind, express or implied,
including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a
particular purpose, and noninfringement. In no event shall the authors be
liable for any claim, damages, or other liability, whether in an action of
contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of, or in connection with the
Work or the use or other dealings in the Work.

7. Limitation of Liability

In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence),
contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate
and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
liable to you for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental,
or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License
or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to
damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction,
or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

8. Severability

If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision
shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. If any
provision of this License is found to be invalid or unenforceable, the
validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be
affected or impaired.

9. Governing Law

This License shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws
of the jurisdiction where the principal place of business of the Licensor is
located, excluding its conflicts of law principles.

